+++
date = 2023-01-14T23:00:00Z
description = "Dioscorides gave a detailed description of the mandrake (Mandragora officinarum) and its pharmacological use as an anaesthetic.\n\nMandrake is a well-known plant in ancient traditional medicine, referred to by various names meaning, for example, devil's apple, demon balls, circe plant, gallows man, etc. The humanoid root of the plant was considered a magical talisman and, over the centuries, the mandrake was endowed with a mystical aura; in fact, superstitions surrounding the harvesting of the plant said that the plant, when uprooted, would emit a horrible cry, which would be fatal to the harvester who heard it, causing death or madness. To avoid this dreadful fate, it was advisable to partially dig up the plant, leaving a few roots in the ground, or to have it uprooted by a dog that would then die. Unlike the sad fate of the collector, the mandrake would bring love and fertility to those who consumed it, again according to ancient myths, which also attributed aphrodisiac properties to the mandrake.\n\nDioscorides depicts the Mandrake as a human-shaped root with flower stalks forming a curious, feather-like helmet on its head. The mandrake is probably the most famous 'magic' plant in Europe, known for its medicinal and psychoactive properties, with which a wide range of legends and myths have been associated over the centuries.\n\nDioscorides considers the Mandrake a true anaesthetic. In fact, he describes the wine produced by the mandrake as suitable for relieving pain caused by surgery or cautery, and also says that mandrake wine enables deep sleep. Dioscorides first used the word anaesthesia as the absence of pain sensation as we understand it today. Traditionally, mandrake has been used to treat insomnia, dysuria, haemorrhoids, rheumatic pains, toothache, melancholy and depression and many other conditions.\n\nMandrake is a perennial plant with a large, branching root, often anthropomorphic in appearance; the flower peduncles arise from the centre of the leaf rosette. Mandrake is fairly widespread in central-southern Italy and the islands. It contains several phytochemicals, among which some alkaloids (atropine and scopolamine), coumarins (umbelliferone and scopoletine), withanolides (salpichrolide C) and lipid compounds (beta-sitosterol) are pharmacologically active. Some of the active ingredients of this plant have been studied by modern pharmacology and have shown biologically active effects, including anticholinergic, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. The study of the pharmacological activities of the compounds isolated from mandrake, particularly the alkaloids, supports the traditional use of this plant as a narcotic.\n\nCurrently, the plant is no longer used in traditional medicine and is not even included among the plants that can be used as ingredients for food supplements."
draft = true
include_footer = false
thumbnail = "/uploads/dioscoride-mandrake.jpg"
title = "Mandrake "

+++
